blog post about anaconda (#428)
sunpy/sunpy.org: posts/2024/2024-08-09-anaconda.md

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free, based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post.](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free)
Which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## What is free to use?

- ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone. (Also ``mamba`` the alternative to ``conda``?)

## What is not free to use?

> - Anaconda's default channel, which is installed by default when you either install the `Anaconda` distribution or the `miniconda` distribution.

Author: ```suggestion
- Anaconda's "defaults" channel, which is used for the base environment.
  A channel is similar to an app store and it is where all anaconda packages originate from when one installs a package.
  It is used if one installs the `Anaconda` distribution or the `miniconda` distribution.
```

  Anything that is "curated, built, maintained, and served by Anaconda's engineers on its secure cloud infrastructure", has these licenses.

So to be very clear.
Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use of `conda` and the defaults channel.

If you want to use these for free, you have to meet the following conditions:

- Your organization has less than 200 people, or
- Your organization has 200 or more people, but qualifies as an exempt organization in Anaconda's terms of service:

> Students and educational entities may use our free offerings in curriculum-based courses.

> ## What should one use instead?

Author: ```suggestion
## What is the alternative?
```

The answer from the SunPy Project is the following:

> - Use [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) which is a conda distribution that uses the "conda-forge" channel which does not have these restrictions.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) which is a `conda` distribution that uses the "conda-forge" channel, a channel that does not have these restrictions.
```

- Never setup or use the defaults channel if you install `miniforge`.

> ## I have anaconda already - What should I do?

Author: ```suggestion
## I have Anaconda already - What should I do?
```

> Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).

Author: ```suggestion
Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).
```

> Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about getting switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).
```
I didn't write proper English 😅

This is good for new environments but it doesn't remove what you've got already installed (e.g., the `base` environment) and you may be still infringing the Terms of Services for Anaconda.

> Therefore, the cleanest way would be to remove anaconda completely and install [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, the cleanest way would be to remove Anaconda completely and install [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).
```

> Unfortunately, there is not automated way of recreating all of your environments, and [this post about migrating from Anaconda to miniforge](https://it.martinos.org/help/migrating-anaconda-miniconda-install-to-a-miniforge-install/) details the steps that one has to follow.

Author: ```suggestion
Unfortunately, there is no automated way of recreating all of your environments, and [this post about migrating from Anaconda to miniforge](https://it.martinos.org/help/migrating-anaconda-miniconda-install-to-a-miniforge-install/) details the steps that one has to follow to migrate.
```

---

# Anaconda is not "free"

We wanted to inform the wider community about [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and if you are legally allowed to use it for free.

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free which is based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post.](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free)
Which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## What is free to use?

- `conda` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone.

> 

Author: I wanted this focus on anaconda until we get to conda-forge at the bottom.

> 

Reviewer 2: I think it would be beneficial to point it out here because someone skimming this is more likely to notice?

> 

Author: Done

If you want to use these for free, you have to meet the following conditions:

- Your organization has less than 200 people, or
- Your organization has 200 or more people, but qualifies as an exempt organization in Anaconda's terms of service:

> Students and educational entities may use our free offerings in curriculum-based courses.

## What is the alternative?

The answer from the SunPy Project is the following:

- Use [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) which is a `conda` distribution that uses the "conda-forge" channel, a channel that does not have these restrictions.
  It is also the only way to install any SunPy Project library via conda.
- Never setup or use the defaults channel if you install `miniforge`.

## I have Anaconda already - What should I do?

Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).
This is good for new environments but it doesn't remove what you've got already installed (e.g., the `base` environment) and you may be still infringing the Terms of Services for Anaconda.

> Therefore, the cleanest way would be to remove Anaconda completely and install [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).

Author: Done

## What is free to use?

- ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone. (Also ``mamba`` the alternative to ``conda``?)

## What is not free to use?

- Anaconda's "defaults" channel, which is used for the base environment.
  A channel is similar to an app store and it is where all anaconda packages originate from when one installs a package.
  It is used if one installs the `Anaconda` distribution or the `miniconda` distribution.
  Anything that is "curated, built, maintained, and served by Anaconda's engineers on its secure cloud infrastructure", has these licenses.

Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.

If you want to use these for free, you have to meet the following conditions:

- Your organization has less than 200 people, or
- Your organization has 200 or more people, but qualifies as an exempt organization in Anaconda's terms of service:

> Students and educational entities may use our free offerings in curriculum-based courses.

## What is the alternative?

The answer from the SunPy Project is the following:

> - Use [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) which is a `conda` distribution that uses the "conda-forge" channel, a channel that does not have these restrictions.

Author: ```suggestion
- Using the channels provided by "conda-forge". 
  conda-forge is a community-led project which creates recipes, hosts infrastructure and distributions for use with conda.
  They provide a distribution (similar to `miniconda`) called [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) is configured to use the conda-forge channel by default.
```

---
blogpost: true
date: Aug 09 2024
author: Nabil Freij
category: Information
---

# Anaconda packages are not "free"

We wanted to inform the wider community about [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and if you are legally allowed to use it for free.

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free, based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post.](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free)
Which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## What is free to use?

> - ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone. (Also ``mamba`` the alternative to ``conda``?)
> 

Author: ```suggestion
- ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone. (Also ``mamba`` the alternative to ``conda``?)
- Anything that is provided by the [conda-forge project](https://conda-forge.org/) which means their packages and channels they maintain.

```

  It is used if one installs the `Anaconda` distribution or the `miniconda` distribution.
  Anything that is "curated, built, maintained, and served by Anaconda's engineers on its secure cloud infrastructure", has these licenses.

Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.

If you want to use these for free, you have to meet the following conditions:

- Your organization has less than 200 people, or
- Your organization has 200 or more people, but qualifies as an exempt organization in Anaconda's terms of service:

> Students and educational entities may use our free offerings in curriculum-based courses.

## What is the alternative?

The answer from the SunPy Project is the following:

- Using the channels provided by "conda-forge". 
  conda-forge is a community-led project which creates recipes, hosts infrastructure and distributions for use with conda.
  They provide a distribution (similar to `miniconda`) called [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) is configured to use the conda-forge channel by default.

>   It is also the only way to install any SunPy Project library via conda.

Author: ```suggestion
  It is also the only way to [install any SunPy Project library](https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/tutorial/installation.html#installing-miniforge) via conda.
```

- Never setup or use the defaults channel if you install `miniforge`.

## I have Anaconda already - What should I do?

Though, you could get rid of the default channel(s) using the `conda config` command as shown [in this Stack Overflow answer about switching channels from anaconda to conda-forge](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67708768).
This is good for new environments but it doesn't remove what you've got already installed (e.g., the `base` environment) and you may be still infringing the Terms of Services for Anaconda.

> Therefore, the cleanest way would be to remove Anaconda completely and install [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge).

Author: ```suggestion
Therefore, the cleanest way would be to remove Anaconda completely and install [miniforge](https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/tutorial/installation.html#installing-miniforge).
```

---
blogpost: true
date: Aug 09 2024
author: Nabil Freij
category: Information
---

# Anaconda packages are not "free"

We wanted to inform the wider community about [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and if you are legally allowed to use it for free.

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free, based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

> [Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post.](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free)
> Which we use here to form the basis of this post.

Author: ```suggestion
[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free), which we use here to form the basis of this post.
```

> 

Author: ```suggestion

## Glossary

I want to define a few words which will be used heavily below:

- channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with conda.
- distribution: It is an installer that will install ``conda`` and configure a default channel to use.
  For anaconda, this is the "defaults" channel whereas for conda-forge this is the "conda-forge " channel.
```

## What is free to use?

> - ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, is free to use by anyone. (Also ``mamba`` the alternative to ``conda``?)

Author: ```suggestion
- ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, allows free use.
- ``mamba`` an the alternative to ``conda`` also allows free use.
```

> - Anything that is provided by the [conda-forge project](https://conda-forge.org/) which means their packages and channels they maintain.

Author: ```suggestion
- Anything that is provided by the [conda-forge project](https://conda-forge.org/) which means their packages, the channels they maintain and any distribution they provide.
```

## What is not free to use?

- Anaconda's "defaults" channel, which is used for the base environment.

>   A channel is similar to an app store and it is where all anaconda packages originate from when one installs a package.

Author: ```suggestion
```

  It is used if one installs the `Anaconda` distribution or the `miniconda` distribution.
  Anything that is "curated, built, maintained, and served by Anaconda's engineers on its secure cloud infrastructure", has these licenses.

> Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.

Author: ```suggestion
*Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.*
```

> *Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.*

Author: ```suggestion
**Using the defaults channel can lead to you becoming legally required to pay Anaconda for the use the defaults channel.**
```

If you want to use these for free, you have to meet the following conditions:

- Your organization has less than 200 people, or
- Your organization has 200 or more people, but qualifies as an exempt organization in Anaconda's terms of service:

> Students and educational entities may use our free offerings in curriculum-based courses.

## What is the alternative?

The answer from the SunPy Project is the following:

> - Using the channels provided by "conda-forge". 

Author: ```suggestion
- Using the channels provided by "conda-forge".
```

  conda-forge is a community-led project which creates recipes, hosts infrastructure and distributions for use with conda.
  They provide a distribution (similar to `miniconda`) called [miniforge](https://github.com/conda-forge/miniforge) is configured to use the conda-forge channel by default.
  It is also the only way to [install any SunPy Project library](https://docs.sunpy.org/en/stable/tutorial/installation.html#installing-miniforge) via conda.

> - Never setup or use the defaults channel if you install `miniforge`.

Author: ```suggestion'
- Never setup or use the defaults "channel" if you install `miniforge`.
```

For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free), which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## Glossary

I want to define a few words which will be used heavily below:

- channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with conda.
- distribution: It is an installer that will install ``conda`` and configure a default channel to use.
  For anaconda, this is the "defaults" channel whereas for conda-forge this is the "conda-forge " channel.

> ## What is free to use?

Author: ```suggestion

## What is free to use?
```

author: Nabil Freij
category: Information
---

# Anaconda packages are not "free"

We wanted to inform the wider community about [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and if you are legally allowed to use it for free.

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free, based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free), which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## Glossary

I want to define a few words which will be used heavily below:

> 

Author: ```suggestion

- ``conda``: This refers to the binary tool that a user calls on the command line.
```

> - channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with conda.

Author: ```suggestion
- channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with ``conda``.
```

author: Nabil Freij
category: Information
---

# Anaconda packages are not "free"

We wanted to inform the wider community about [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/) and if you are legally allowed to use it for free.

What is not commonly known is that Anaconda has specific clauses in its license which determine if one is able to use it for free, based on the organization you work for.
For example, [The Register](https://www.theregister.com/2024/08/08/anaconda_puts_the_squeeze_on/) has reported that:

> Research and academic organizations are just now finding out that they will have to pay for software made by Anaconda, when for years these groups were under the impression it could be used at no cost.
>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free), which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## Glossary

I want to define a few words which will be used heavily below:

> - ``conda``: This refers to the binary tool that a user calls on the command line.

Author: ```suggestion
- ``conda``: This refers to the binary tool that a user calls on the command line.
  It is a package installation and environment management software.
```

- channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with ``conda``.
- distribution: It is an installer that will install ``conda`` and configure a default channel to use.
  For anaconda, this is the "defaults" channel whereas for conda-forge this is the "conda-forge " channel.

## What is free to use?

> - ``conda`` the package installation and environment management software, allows free use.

Author: ```suggestion
- ``conda`` binary.
```

>
> A source who works at a medium-size non-profit academic research institution told The Register about being on the end of a legal demand to purchase a commercial license for the Anaconda-built software they had been using for free.

[Anaconda themselves summarize this in a really detailed blog post](https://www.anaconda.com/blog/is-conda-free), which we use here to form the basis of this post.

## Glossary

I want to define a few words which will be used heavily below:

- ``conda``: This refers to the binary tool that a user calls on the command line.
  It is a package installation and environment management software.
- channel or conda channel: It is a centralized repository of packages (python or not) which one can install with ``conda``.
- distribution: It is an installer that will install ``conda`` and configure a default channel to use.
  For anaconda, this is the "defaults" channel whereas for conda-forge this is the "conda-forge " channel.

## What is free to use?

- ``conda`` binary.

> - ``mamba`` an the alternative to ``conda``.

Author: ```suggestion
- ``mamba`` an alternative to ``conda``.
```

> - ``mamba`` an the alternative to ``conda`` also allows free use.

Author: ```suggestion
- ``mamba`` an the alternative to ``conda``.
```
